	Seascape habitat was constructed by extracting hard coral reef coverage from The Nature Conservancy’s Caribbean 4-m resolution marine maps (Schill et al. 2021), St Thomas north shore mesophotic monitoring (Groves 2016), species distribution models of the USVI southern shelf (Costa et al. 2017) and wider mesophotic habitat (Egan et al. 2021), British VI environmental monitoring (NOAA 2001), and various NOAA NCCOS products available online (2002; 2012a; 2012b; 2013). Hardbottom communities were considered reef habitat in all datasets except for TNC, where coral coverage was predominately located in reef-specific raster layers. A 650-m resolution habitat grid spanning the northern USVI and all but Anegada in the British VI was created to roughly halve the resolution of the 330-m hydrodynamics and overlaid the 50-m NOAA National Coral Reef Monitoring Program sample frame for the USVI (UTM zone 20N). A 3600-m grid spanning St Croix, Anegada, and the eastern tip of the Dominican Republic was overlaid to halve the resolution of the 1800-m hydrodynamics and overlaid the 50-m NCRMP sample frame for Puerto Rico (UTM zone 19N). Polygons at the intersection of the two sample frames were removed to accommodate the difference in projections and avoid grid overlap. The grids were cut to only keep polygons overlapping seascape habitat.


Costa BM, Kracker LM, Battista TA, Sautter W, Mabrouk A, Edwards K, Taylor C, Ebert E (2017) Benthic habitat maps for the insular shelf south of St. Thomas and St. John. 
Egan K, Viehman T, Holstein D, Poti M, Groves S, Smith T (2021) Predicting the distribution of threatened orbicellid corals in shallow and mesophotic reef ecosystems. Marine Ecology Progress Series 667:61–81 
Groves S (2016) Physical drivers of community structure and growth among mesophotic coral ecosystems surrounding St. Thomas, U. S. Virgin Islands. 
Schill SR, McNulty VP, Pollock FJ, Lüthje F, Li J, Knapp DE, Kington JD, McDonald T, Raber GT, Escovar-Fadul X, Asner GP (2021) Regional High-Resolution Benthic Habitat Data from Planet Dove Imagery for Conservation Decision-Making and Marine Planning. Remote Sensing 13:4215 

